---
title: 'Note to Editors'

order: 2
---

# Note to Editors

## File Manager

The File Manager section in the Game Developer Center (GDC) allows you to package files from your games into separate products which can then be associate to tokens gamers can purchase or get for free such as:

-   YourGame Standard Edition
-   YourGame DLC Mission Pack1
-   YourGame French Language Pack
-   YourGame Demo
-   YourGame Dedicated Server

The File Manager works hand in hand with FileBeam, Ultra’s file uploading application, which, by means of a configuration file, allows you to upload your game files in different file repositories on Ultra’s servers.

## Uploading your Game

Uploading your game in different file repositories is useful for various use cases such as:

-   You might want to separately sell DLCs which are not part of your original product file collection such as new maps, new game modes or new skins.
-   By splitting language related files, Ultra is able to serve only relevant voice, texture and video files to your customers, reducing their downloading time considerably. For example, Russian gamers are only interested in Russian language files, downloading Chinese or French voices, videos or textures is likely unnecessary. **(coming soon)**

-   NOTE: Ultra Game’s library will allow gamers to manually choose to download any language you provide in the product they purchased **(coming soon)**

The File Manager is composed of the following two sections:

-   **Files Repositories:** It is where you will create file repositories who will contain your game files. You can create different types of file repositories in which you can upload different types of files from your game such as Core game files, DLC files and Language pack files. Every time a file repository is created, a unique Repository ID is automatically assigned to it. Repository IDs are used to let you tell FileBeam in what repositories different files should be uploaded.
-   **Assemble Game Builds:** It is where you will select different repositories containing files you uploaded to assemble a version of a product build.

-   A version of a Product build is what you will promote to a branch of a Product. For example you can promote YourGame build V3 to the Beta Branch Of the Game Standard Edition product.

To sell a product on Ultra games, you will at least need one product build assigned to a branch.
