---
title: 'About Game Builds'

order: 3
---

# Overview

Game builds can be a combination of one or more repositories containing files. In other words, the process usually is: Create repositories => Upload files to repositories => Assemble a build using the repositories.

Ultra lets you create different types of file repositories in which you’ll upload different parts of your game files:

-   **Core game files:** Contains the game executable and most of the game files.
-   **Game DLC:** additional content you want to distribute separately such as new maps, skins, music, etc.
-   **Core demo game files:** Contains all the files necessary to download and play a demo of your game.
-   **Game language packs:** files related to a specific language such as sounds, movies and textures you believe is unnecessary to send to users who don’t talk the language **(Coming soon).**
-   **Game dedicated server:** Files necessary to run a dedicated server of your game. This allows anyone, even if they don’t own the game, to download and run a dedicated server **(Coming soon).**

Every time you create a repository, Ultra will automatically assign it a repository ID, which looks like this: WINCOREG91a7f553-5dd7-4078-813d-b5064629d527. Repository IDs are used to indicate File Beam in what repositories different files should be uploaded.

Every time you upload files with File Beam to a repository, Ultra will create a new version of that repository while keeping the old one.

Ultra’s versioned repositories is what will enable you to:

1.  Easily apply updates to your customer's files.
2.  Roll back to a previous version if there are issues with your latest build
3.  Operate multiple builds simultaneously through branching. For example, operate a Beta branch and a Master Branch of the same product simultaneously.
4.  Automate a CI/CD pipeline ([https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CI/CD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CI/CD))

Important things to to know:

-   Including a DLC repository in a build doesn’t mean the buyer of the game will receive this DLC! It only means the files contained in the DLC repository version you associated with this build are compatible with this build. In other words, the buyer will still have to separately buy the DLC to get it, and when they buy it, Ultra’s file distribution system will know what DLC repository version to download for this particular game build version.

-   In the future you’ll be able to “bundle” DLCs tokens with your Game tokens. In the meantime, if you want users to get DLCs as part of the game they buy, upload them in your game’s core game files repository.

-   Ultra’s distribution technology has been built for cross platform publishing. While at this point, we only support the Windows platform, future updates will include MacOS and Linux support
