---
title: 'Uniq Variants'
deploy: ['staging', 'mainnet']
order: -99999
---

# Uniq Variants

This section aims to inform our users of how Uniq's and their individual variants currently work. It will help familiarize end users with our terminology, and how our Uniq data is structured.

## Terminology

These are generalized terms to help identify how the developers at Ultra speak about the NFTs that are minted.

* Uniq
  * NFT
  * A uniq is a single token that is generated by a Uniq Factory.
  * A uniq can have its own unique **uri** which points to metadata.

* Uniq Factory
  * A uniq factory is a system that mints tokens based on specific metadata.
  * Each factory on-chain has the following:
    *  factory_uri
    *  factory_hash
    *  default_token_uri
    *  default_token_hash
  * The values above are used to determine where metdata is located, and the hash is made from the contents of the metadata file.

* Metadata
  * Is a type of dataset that is stored off-chain and usually has different hashes to verify the authenticity of the data.
  * Inside you can usually find links to images, descriptions, and traits for a given token, or factory.

* Hash
  * A set of bytes that are strung together to generate a unique string based on those bytes of data.
  * In Ultra's case we use the SHA-256 algorithm for its wide availability across all platforms

* Uniq Default Token
  * Uniq's utilize a default token to apply a template to any token that does not have unique data.
  * The metadata from this file is automatically applied.

### Recap

This is the short version of the above.

* Uniq Factories create Uniq's that contain references to their uniq factory, or individual metadata.
* Metadata can be obtained by visiting the various URLs inside of a factory, or an individual token.
* All uniqs can have their own metadata, or utilize a single default template for all uniqs.
* The authenticity of data is verified by the SHA256 algorithm by hashing the contents of files, and the files inside of the files.

## Uniq Factory Metadata

Each Uniq Factory is required to utilize our schema's to help standardize the system across our entire platform.

In the link provided below, you can learn more about how this uniq factory metadata is built, and what to expect when building your own uniq factory.

> [Factory Metadata](./factory-metadata.md)

## Uniq Default Token Metadata

Depending on the factory strategy it may either supply a `default_token_uri` or individually link to a `uri` inside of the uniq itself. The uniq can be *revealed* at runtime by appending the `uri` that is necessary for a unqi to have its own metadata.

Factory managers may choose to lock a uniq's data after it is minted depending on how they would like to distribute their uniqs.

In the link provided below, you can learn more about the default token and its given format.

> [Uniq Default Metadata](./uniq-default-metadata.md)

## Uniqs

Uniqs have their own schema that is shared with the default token, but there are a few differences in how it functions. In the link provided below you can learn more about what actions to call, and individual changes that can be applied to a uniq.

> [Uniq Metadata](./uniq-metadata.md)

## Relevant Actions

Below you can find some relevant blockchain actions for the `eosio.nft.ft` account for managing uniqs, uniq factories, and their status.

* [Set Factory Meta](../../contracts/NFT%20Contract/NFT%20Actions/setmeta.b.md)
* [Set Default Uniq Meta](../../contracts/NFT%20Contract/NFT%20Actions/setdflttkn.md)
* [Set Uniq Meta](../../contracts/NFT%20Contract/NFT%20Actions/settknmeta.md)
* [Lock Factory](../../contracts/NFT%20Contract/NFT%20Actions/lckfactory.md)
* [Create Uniq Factory](../../contracts/NFT%20Contract/NFT%20Actions/create.b.md)
* [Issue Uniq](../../contracts/NFT%20Contract/NFT%20Actions/issue.b.md)
